NMS-14013: Add device config backup documentation (#4297)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/device-config-backup/introduction.adoc

= Device Configuation Backup

> OpenNMS allows to backup the configuration of devices like routers or firewalls. OpenNMS and Minions provide a TFTP server. Devices send their configuration to that TFTP server. The backup can happen either pull or push based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenNMS allows you to back up the configuration of devices like routers or firewalls. 
It does this through a TFTP server that OpenNMS and Minions provide. 
Devices send their configuration to that TFTP server with either a pull- or push-based backup.
```

Reviewer: We try to do one sentence per line.

> * Pull based backup: OpenNMS uses its poller infrastructure to schedule tasks that connect via SSH into devices and execute configurable scripts that do the TFTP uploads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pull-based backup: OpenNMS uses its poller infrastructure to schedule tasks that connect via SSH into devices and execute configurable scripts that do the TFTP uploads.
```

> * Push based backup: Devices may upload their configuration by themselves. This may happen for example either by administrator interactions or by scheduled jobs running on the devices theirselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Push-based backup: Devices may upload their configuration by themselves. This may happen, for example, either by administrator interaction or scheduled jobs running on the devices themselves.
```

== Overview

> OpenNMS stores device config backups for IP addresses in the default location or at remote locations. Different kinds of _configuration types_ can be distinguished. For example, some devices may distinguish between their _default_ configuration and their _running_ configuration. OpenNMS considers configuration types as arbitrary strings. If no configuration type is specified then _default_ is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenNMS stores device configuration backups for IP addresses in the default location or at remote locations. 
Different kinds of configuration types can be distinguished. 
For example, some devices may distinguish between their default configuration and their running configuration. 
OpenNMS considers configuration types as arbitrary strings. 
If no configuration type is specified, then _default_ is used.
```

> OpenNMS archives received backups and records when changes happened. It also records if backups fail and raises according alarms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenNMS archives received backups and records when changes happened. 
It also records if backups fail and raises corresponding alarms.
```

== SSH scripting

> An SSH scripting engine executes the commands that are necessary to upload device configurations. The scripting engine supports two commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An SSH scripting engine executes the commands that are necessary to upload device configurations. 
The scripting engine supports two commands:
```

* `send: ...`: Sends the given string to the device
* `await: ...`: Awaits some response from the device

Scripts can reference the following variables by using `${varname}` notation:

.Scripting variables
[options="header" cols="1,2"]
|===
| Name
| Description

| `tftpServerIp`

> | ip address of the TFTP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| IP address of the TFTP server
```

| `tftpServerPort`
| port number of the TFTP server

| `filenameSuffix`
| suffix that must be appended to the filename for uploading

| `configType`
| config type as described above
|===

> Note: Uploaded configuration files should specify their file type by including the corresponding filename extension like `.zip` or `.gz`. In addition, a `.` and the script variable `filenameSuffix` has to be appended to the filename that is used for upload. That additional suffix is used on the server side to identify incoming uploads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Uploaded configuration files should specify their file type by including the corresponding filename extension like `.zip` or `.gz`. In addition, a `.` and the script variable `filenameSuffix` has to be appended to the filename that is used for upload. The server uses that additional suffix to identify incoming uploads.
```

= Device Configuation Backup

OpenNMS allows you to back up the configuration of devices like routers or firewalls. 
It does this through a TFTP server that OpenNMS and Minions provide. 
Devices send their configuration to that TFTP server with either a pull- or push-based backup.

* Pull-based backup: OpenNMS uses its poller infrastructure to schedule tasks that connect via SSH into devices and execute configurable scripts that do the TFTP uploads.
* Push-based backup: Devices may upload their configuration by themselves. This may happen, for example, either by administrator interaction or scheduled jobs running on the devices themselves.

== Overview

OpenNMS stores device configuration backups for IP addresses in the default location or at remote locations. 
Different kinds of configuration types can be distinguished. 
For example, some devices may distinguish between their default configuration and their running configuration. 
OpenNMS considers configuration types as arbitrary strings. 

> If no configuration type is specified, then _default_ is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no configuration type is specified, then `default` is used.
```

OpenNMS archives received backups and records when changes happened. 
It also records if backups fail and raises corresponding alarms.

== SSH scripting

An SSH scripting engine executes the commands that are necessary to upload device configurations. 
The scripting engine supports two commands:

* `send: ...`: Sends the given string to the device
* `await: ...`: Awaits some response from the device

Scripts can reference the following variables by using `${varname}` notation:

.Scripting variables
[options="header" cols="1,2"]
|===
| Name
| Description

> | `tftpServerIp`
> | IP address of the TFTP server
> 
> | `tftpServerPort`
> | port number of the TFTP server
> 
> | `filenameSuffix`
> | suffix that must be appended to the filename for uploading
> 
> | `configType`

Reviewer 2: No monospace formatting on property names in tables
```suggestion
| tftpServerIp
| IP address of the TFTP server

| tftpServerPort
| port number of the TFTP server

| filenameSuffix
| suffix that must be appended to the filename for uploading

| configType
```

| config type as described above
|===

> Note: Uploaded configuration files should specify their file type by including the corresponding filename extension like `.zip` or `.gz`. In addition, a `.` and the script variable `filenameSuffix` has to be appended to the filename that is used for upload. The server uses that additional suffix to identify incoming uploads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Uploaded configuration files should specify their file type by including the corresponding filename extension like `.zip` or `.gz`.
In addition, a `.` and the script variable `filenameSuffix` must be appended to the filename that is used for upload.
{page-component-title} uses that additional suffix to identify incoming uploads.
```

> Example script:
> 
> ```
> await: >
> send: configure
> await: Entering configuration mode
> await: #
> send: save config to config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
> await: Config saved to config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
> await: #
> send: quit
> await: Exiting configuration mode
> await: >
> send: tftp export configuration from config.gz.${filenameSuffix} to ${tftpServerIp}:${tftpServerPort}
> await: >
> send: delete config saved config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
> await: Successfully removed config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
> await: >
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example script
[source, script]
----
await: >
send: configure
await: Entering configuration mode
await: #
send: save config to config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
await: Config saved to config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
await: #
send: quit
await: Exiting configuration mode
await: >
send: tftp export configuration from config.gz.${filenameSuffix} to ${tftpServerIp}:${tftpServerPort}
await: >
send: delete config saved config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
await: Successfully removed config.gz.${filenameSuffix}
await: >
----
```
